README.md, before:

# EDS 220 - Assignment 1, tasks 2 and 3

This repository contains materials for the first assignment for the course [EDS 220 - Working with Environmental Datasets](https://meds-eds-220.github.io/MEDS-eds-220-course/). This course is part of the [UCSB Masters in Environmental Data Science](https://bren.ucsb.edu/masters-programs/master-environmental-data-science).

## Assignment instructions
Complete instructions for this assignment are in [the course website](https://meds-eds-220.github.io/MEDS-eds-220-course/assignments/assignment1.html).

## Notebook instructions
The notebooks `hwk1-task2-corals.ipynb` and `hwk1-task3-earthquakes.ipynb` have exercises for practicing fundamental tabular data exploration, wrangling, and visualization using `pandas`. Each notebook contains detailed instructions on how to complete the exercises. 

The `data` folder contains a single CSV file (`data/earthquake_data.csv`) used in `hwk1-task3.ipynb`.

## Rubric

Please [review the rubric for these tasks](https://docs.google.com/document/d/131OnUDOLpOl94SlaMU9nGqT998ABrjFS/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=111507336322611936333&rtpof=true&sd=true) before starting your work. 

## Submission instructions
**All tasks for this assignment should be submitted via Gradescope.** Make sure you double-check your submission to ensure it satisfies all the items in this checklist:

- [ ] Answers for tasks 2 and 3 must be submitted as .ipynb files (Jupyter Notebooks) to Gradescope, *not* a PDF or other format.
- [ ] Ensure your notebooks include a link to your assignment's GitHub repository in the designated section.
- [ ] The notebooks you submit must have your solutions to the exercises, They *should not be the blank template notebooks*. 
- [ ] The notebooks you submit must include your code *and* all required rendered plots, graphs, and printed output. Run all cells before submitting your .ipynb file and make sure all the outputs are visible.
- [ ] Double-check that each notebook or PDF is uploaded to the correct task on Gradescope. 

**Resubmissions after the due date due to not satisfying one of the checks above will be strictly held to the course's 50%-regrade resubmission policy (see syllabus).**

If you have any questions, please reach out to the TA or instructor by 5 pm on the day before the assignment is due.

Commit message:

Update readme to contain info on checks

README.md, after:

# EDS 220 - Assignment 1, tasks 2 and 3

This repository contains materials for the first assignment for the course [EDS 220 - Working with Environmental Datasets](https://meds-eds-220.github.io/MEDS-eds-220-course/). This course is part of the [UCSB Masters in Environmental Data Science](https://bren.ucsb.edu/masters-programs/master-environmental-data-science).

## Assignment instructions
Complete instructions for this assignment are in [the course website](https://meds-eds-220.github.io/MEDS-eds-220-course/assignments/assignment1.html).

## Notebook instructions
The notebooks `hwk1-task2-corals.ipynb` and `hwk1-task3-earthquakes.ipynb` have exercises for practicing fundamental tabular data exploration, wrangling, and visualization using `pandas`. Each notebook contains detailed instructions on how to complete the exercises.  


## Otter Grader Checks
These notebooks utilize the `otter` library and have self contained checks within the notebooks to ensure you are on the right track. To start, run the very first cell of the notebook that contains the  ""#Initialize Otter" comment. After completing a question, there may be a cell that follows that says `grader.check()`.To check your work, run that cell. Doing so will either return an emoji with the text "q# passed!", or it will tell you the test did not pass. If your test did not pass, try rereading the prompt and making sure your output is what you would expect. 

The very last cell of the notebook contains a cell with `grader_check_all()`. This runs all tests in the notebook and reports the tests that have passed as well as the ones that have failed. Be sure to run this cell! Ideally, your output will look like the following (question numbers may differ). 

![](data/grader_check.png)


The `data` folder contains a single CSV file (`data/earthquake_data.csv`) used in `hwk1-task3.ipynb`.

## Rubric

Please [review the rubric for these tasks](https://docs.google.com/document/d/131OnUDOLpOl94SlaMU9nGqT998ABrjFS/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=111507336322611936333&rtpof=true&sd=true) before starting your work. 

## Submission instructions
**All tasks for this assignment should be submitted via Gradescope.** Make sure you double-check your submission to ensure it satisfies all the items in this checklist:

- [ ] Answers for tasks 2 and 3 must be submitted as .ipynb files (Jupyter Notebooks) to Gradescope, *not* a PDF or other format.
- [ ] Ensure your notebooks include a link to your assignment's GitHub repository in the designated section.
- [ ] The notebooks you submit must have your solutions to the exercises, They *should not be the blank template notebooks*. 
- [ ] The notebooks you submit must include your code *and* all required rendered plots, graphs, and printed output. Run all cells before submitting your .ipynb file and make sure all the outputs are visible.
- [ ] Double-check that each notebook or PDF is uploaded to the correct task on Gradescope. 

**Resubmissions after the due date due to not satisfying one of the checks above will be strictly held to the course's 50%-regrade resubmission policy (see syllabus).**

If you have any questions, please reach out to the TA or instructor by 5 pm on the day before the assignment is due.
